So what was mongodb again?
Well mongodb is a NoSQL database which stores documents and collections
and if you're coming from a SQL background as many web developers are, well documents would be your
equivalent to records kind of and collections would be what you know as tables in SQL.
So it's a database,
it runs on a server,
you store application data there like your users, your products or in our application, the posts. It
enforces no data schema or relations,
so the individual records can actually be structured how we want
and whilst we can add some type of relations, relations play less of a role than they do in SQL and
it's easily connected to node and express, that's also great about mongodb,
we can easily add it to a node express backend, not directly to angular though and I'll come back
to this in a few minutes.
So overall, mongodb is a powerful database which we can easily integrate into our node express
environment which of course is great because that is exactly the environment we have in that course.
Now one thing that's really important to me though, we will use mongodb here because that mean stack
thing is really popular but you could theoretically swap it for any other database, so for any SQL database
like MySQL if you preferred this.
So that of course leaves one question,
why are we using mongodb and what's the difference between mongodb or NoSQL databases in general
and SQL solutions like MySQL?